Document `ref` URIs that replace `docs/reference` shortcodes (#589)
grafana/writers-toolkit: docs/sources/write/links/_index.md

# Links

Choose your link type based on your goal:

- [Link from source content that's used in multiple projects](#link-from-source-content-thats-used-in-multiple-projects)
- [Link to `grafana.com` pages](#link-to-grafanacom-pages)
- [Link to external pages](#link-to-external-pages)

You may want to link to a heading within a page.

> To do so, use one of the preceding options and then refer to [Link to page headings](#link-to-page-headings).

Author: Cool that makes sense :)

> To do so, use one of the preceding options and then refer to [Link to page headings](#link-to-page-headings).

Author: Fixed in c4d75fc

Although these other types of links still function, replace them with one of the preceding options:

- [Hugo `relref` shortcode](https://grafana.com/docs/writers-toolkit/write/shortcodes/#relref)

> - [`docs/reference shortcode](https://grafana.com/docs/writers-toolkit/write/shortcodes/#docsreference)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [`docs/reference` shortcode](https://grafana.com/docs/writers-toolkit/write/shortcodes/#docsreference)
```

## Link from source content that's used in multiple projects

Use `ref` URIs.

{{< admonition type="note" >}}
If you are using `doc-validator` in CI, you must upgrade to v5.0.0 to use `ref` URIs.
{{< /admonition >}}

`ref` URIs lookup destinations based upon the page's URL path and the definitions in the page's front matter.

A link with a `ref` URI looks like:

```markdown
[LINK TEXT](ref:<KEY>)
```

Hugo looks up _`KEY`_ in the value for the `refs` field in the page's front matter.
If there is no _`KEY`_ in the `refs` field, or there is no `refs` field in the front matter, Hugo logs a build error.

> {{< docs/shared source="writers-toolkit" lookup="refs-example.md" leveloffset="+2" >}}

Reviewer: Given that this example text will be here, it seems like lines 44-53 would be redundant. I'll have to build to check, but just wanted to get this review in before this got merged.

Reviewer: Okay I see what you're trying to do with this section. In preview, it's a hard read, so lemme think on how we might reformat it a bit and circle back.

# Links

Choose your link type based on your goal:

- [Link from source content that's used in multiple projects](#link-from-source-content-thats-used-in-multiple-projects)
- [Link to `grafana.com` pages](#link-to-grafanacom-pages)
- [Link to external pages](#link-to-external-pages)
- [Link to page headings](#link-to-page-headings)
  - Use this with one of the preceding options.

Although these other types of links still function, replace them with one of the preceding options:

- [Hugo `relref` shortcode](https://grafana.com/docs/writers-toolkit/write/shortcodes/#relref)
- [`docs/reference` shortcode](https://grafana.com/docs/writers-toolkit/write/shortcodes/#docsreference)

## Link from source content that's used in multiple projects

> Use `ref` URIs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use `ref` URIs. `Ref` URIs have two components:

- [Link](#link)
- [Front matter](#front-matter)
```

{{< admonition type="note" >}}

> If you are using `doc-validator` in CI, you must upgrade to v5.0.0 to use `ref` URIs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you're using `doc-validator` in CI, you must upgrade to v5.0.0 to use `ref` URIs.
```

`doc-validator` no longer checks link destinations.
You must manually check link destinations in the local preview or fix broken links identified by the weekly website crawl.
{{< /admonition >}}

> `ref` URIs lookup destinations based upon the page's URL path and the definitions in the page's front matter.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`ref` URIs look up destinations based upon the page's URL path and the definitions in the page's front matter.
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

### Link

```

A link with a `ref` URI looks like:

```markdown
[LINK TEXT](ref:<KEY>)
```

> Hugo looks up _`KEY`_ in the value for the `refs` field in the page's front matter.
> _`KEY`_ must only use alphabetic and hyphen (`-`) characters.
> If there is no _`KEY`_ in the `refs` field, or there is no `refs` field in the front matter, Hugo logs a build error.
> 

Reviewer: Same feedback as the corresponding section in the example shared file:
```suggestion

- _`KEY`_ - Enter an alphabetic key. It can include hyphens (`-`).

Hugo looks up _`KEY`_ in the value for the `refs` field in the page's front matter.
If there is no _`KEY`_ in the `refs` field, or there is no `refs` field in the front matter, Hugo logs a build error.

```

> {{< docs/shared source="writers-toolkit" lookup="refs-example.md" leveloffset="+2" >}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Front matter

{{< docs/shared source="writers-toolkit" lookup="refs-example.md" leveloffset="+2" >}}
```
